Common issues in shared datasets.
Even in the few cases where data are shared, either upon request or as supplementary material in publications, serious issues are common.
The most frequent problems include
Missing or incomplete metadata.
Without adequate context, it's impossible to understand how the data were generated or what the variables represent.
No Read Me File.
Many datasets like a simple text file describing the content, explaining how to use the data, the structure of the files, or the methodology behind them.
Disorganized folder structures.
Files are often scattered without logic and naming conventions, making it difficult to navigate, interpret, or reuse the dataset.
Data sets treated as secondary.
Too often, data are considered in appendix to the publication, rather than a standalone research output with its own value and life cycle.
Together, these issues make reuse difficult, if not impossible, and diminish the long-term utility of research data.